Computer Science Research Guide | M&M 

Week One: Introductions and goals 
Introductions
Define two short-term goals to accomplish by the end of academic year
Define long-term career goals
About Academic Research
Undergraduate
Research Symposiums
Paid opportunities
Off-campus research 
Work-study
Paid from Professor’s Grants
Research Experience for Undergrads (REU) 
CS Research fellowships  *site takes a little bit to load
Graduate
Research Thesis option
UTRGV thesis and dissertation important dates
Available Research Scholarships/ Grants
UTRGV Grad- Dean’s Traditional Scholarship
Presidential Graduate Research Assistantship
NSF- Graduate Research Fellowship program
How research helps students develop various technical and soft skills
Career options 
Academic Research
Industry Research
SWE/Data Science opportunities for students with research background 

Week Two: Navigating academic CS research 
UTRGV CS Research Faculty and their projects
Algorithmic Self-Assembly Research Group - Dr. Wylie, Dr. Schweller
Machine Intelligence - Dr. Kim
Molecular Biology Data - Dr. Ayati
Research Grants 
What are they? How do research groups obtain them?
ESAA
How Professors obtain grants
Research Conferences
ASARG - SODA, DNA, CCCG, JCDCG, ICALP, ESA
Machine Intelligence - ICDIS, SIGMOD, BIBE, BIBM, ICMLA
Molecular Biology Data - ACM-BCB, PLoS
Life as a Student researcher
Frequent reading
Working in a research team (Don’t let intimidation settle!)
Presenting your work to mentors
Contribution and your name on published papers
Connections and mentors  for life!
What research interests you?  Discuss with your mentor

Week Three: Research Journals and manuscripts
Gain access to resources as a UTRGV student
OpenAthens
UTRGV digital library
How to search for your topic of interest
 CS Research Journals
Machine Learning - JBCB, IJDMB,TCBB
Molecular Biology Data - Proteomics, EURASIP
ASARG - Algorithmica
Process of Publishing a paper
Submission
Review
Edits
Resubmission
Published papers
Open access vs not open access 
“peer-reviewed”‘? 
STRUCTURE!
Assignment!
Pick a research paper you are interested in and explain it to mentor
	
Week Four: Approaching Faculty for open research positions
How to write an interest email to a professor
CS research needed in every department!
College of Engineering and Computer Science
Department of Mathematics
Department of Biology, Chemistry, Physics
Department of Sociology
School of Medicine
College of Business 

Assignment (optional)
Send a interest email to a research professor 
Go to a professor’s  office hours and ask questions about their research!

Week Five: CS Research Opportunities outside of campus
CS Research Internships 
Summer CS Research
Assignment (optional)
Apply to at least two CS research internship positions
Week Six: Professional development: Resume and networking tips!
Research on a resume
LinkedIn
What’s next?




